- [Instructor] Next step is to add
the @ModelAttribute annotation
for method argument and the login.jsp.
Now we already know this ModelAttribute annotation,
and it essentially means
that we have to first create a Java bean for the login form.
So let's go to IDE.
Let's go under the beans,
and here I'll create a class which is called Login,
and this will have just two variables,
one is the username, and the other is the password.
Let's also generate the getters and setters.
And now let's attach the ModelAttribute to the method.
So in the method signature
of LoginController on line number 10,
I'm going to add the ModelAttribute like that.
Let's give it a name, let's say login,
and this should get bound to the Login bean
that we just defined inside the beans folder.
Not only that, we have to make sure
that this is bound to the JSP as well.
So let's go to login.jsp,
and under your form on line 36,
I'm going to add the modelAttribute which is login.
Next is we have to add @ModelAttribute
for the default login values.
So we have discussed this point before as well,
whenever you're trying to render a JSP,
and if this modelAttribute is attached to somewhere on it,
then it will need a default value
for the properties of this bean that you're binding it for.
So under the HomeController,
let's add a ModelAttribute the way we have added
for the User and the GenderItems before.
So I'm just going to copy this, lines 38 and 39,
come down on 48, paste them,
and let's change these variables.
So this will be login
because the name of the ModelAttribute is login for us.
And what is it returning?
It is returning the Login bean.
So let's do that change.
Let's change this name, let's say getDefaultLogin.
So we have added the DefaultLogin object to ensure
that when the login.jsp gets displayed for the first time
it definitely gets something to render,
even if it is empty values.
Next step will be to add the data with code
for selecting user from the database
and autowire it to the controller.
So we have to simulate the scenario of exception handling.
Let's come back to the IDE
and understand how we're going to do it.
In this LoginController
we are going to receive this Login bean
on line 12 after the form gets submitted.
We're going to extract the username from this
and we're going to check against the database
whether this username exists,
and for that I have to add a method
inside the UserRepository for transacting against database.
So let's go to the repository class for User
and this is going to be a custom method.
Let me explain why.
Let's go to LoginController,
and let's say you autowire the repository class
which is the private User,
we have done this before in one of our videos already.
So this is not new to us now.
So once you do this let's come back to Controller method,
and if you see, on the repository,
the basic raw methods that are available
are findAll, findAllById, findById,
now that is the autoincremented ID
that is present in our table.
But we want to find a user on the basis of the username
that is passed from out HTML form.
So for that we will have to provide a custom method.
So that's what we're going to add in the UserRepository.
So let's hold on with this line for now,
let's not do this now.
First add a method in UserRepository.
So let's come down here, and let's say this will be public,
it should return a login,
no, let's say it returns a User object itself that's fine,
because it's a User table.
And what are we going to do here?
We'll say maybe searchByName, just to make it simple,
and this has to be definitely given a Param annotation
so that it picks the Param from the query
that we are going to write.
Let's import this, and this will be,
let's say the name of the parameter is name
which is bound to the method parameter by the same name,
or let's maybe call username to keep it clear.
Once that's done, on line 11 I'm going to write the query
to retrieve the User object by the username,
and that will look something like this.
We'll say select u, the entire User object,
from the User table, with an alias u,
where u.username is equal to,
and then you pass your parameter.
The name of the parameter that we chose on line 13 is name,
so I'm just going to embed that parameter here,
and that should work fine for us.
So this is going to return us the User object.
Now we can go back to LoginController,
and we have already autowired the UserRepository on line 14,
so let's just come to the Controller method
down here on line 18, and say Repository dot,
and that will be SearchByName, that's what we added,
and we can fetch the username
from the Login bean on line 17.
So just say login.getUsername,
and the return of this is a User object.
Let's collect that into a user variable.
So we are done adding a method in the UserRepository,
and we have autowired it to our Controller.
Next steps in the next video.